The wildness of that opening scene, contrasted with inside wildness.

Beauty. Sheer beauty.

I love the night time. And the glamour. And the magic. 

When I make love, then I come alive.

This love of Rome. The magic of Rome at night. 

The pacing. The way he cuts from scene to Scene. So entertaining. We're never let down.

Imagery is just astounding. 

The long shot of Emma and Marcello in the white hallway. Is just perfect. 

Ciao, Marcello, nice piece of meat, huh?

Interspersing of POV shots. 

Fellini is the only one who can pull of a scene like the rock and roll, jazz, and Divine Richie one. With Sylvia dancing, a line forming. Just crazy and wonderful. Perfectly choreographed. 

The despair of marcello's "where would we find milk at this hour?"

The brilliance of the night fountain to day fountain cannot be understated. 

Intoxicating. I think that's the right word for this movie. It gets overused but it's right here.

The theme of sinners, Jesus, religion, baptism/rebirth. 

The image of everyone trying to get a piece of the Madonna tree in the downpour. 

This had me to be an inspiration for Mad Men, eh?

This is a satire. People forget that. 

--

The dichotomy of day and night. The clarity with which this is shown.

Does Marcello where sunglasses at night and not during the day?

Where are the nightclubs like Cha Cha?

I love how much of the dancing he shows. I want there to be dancing in AMF.

"The thing that ages us most is boredom."

The beauty of: "you want a glass of water?" "No it'll pass". While marcellos father watches out the window. Long shot with clock ticking. Beautiful night. Quiet. Uncertainty of connection. Cop that for AMF. 

"Our parties are famous for being first class funerals."

Is that really Nico?

This party is absolutely bonkers. A lucid dream. How can surrealism fit in to AMF?

Marcello and Magdalena finding that room among the art, so empty....so beautiful.

This it the first ASR or whatever. Marcello alone smoking a cig surrounded t wealth and money, talking to a woman, as close as she has been and as far. 

I'm always astonished by the reality in which these actors buy in. So truthful. Among the chaos. 

Oh this is so fucked up. The Maddalena affair bit. But Marcello doesn't not deserve it. And then he gets swept up in a bizarre costumed ghost hunt. Where nobody noes her. Just perfect. 

The skinny dude is so unsettling. Like slender man. 

I love that they have a ghost hunt and fake exorcism/seance. Just like in AMF. 

...and that sex scene is just, well perfect.

"This is the first time I've seen the dawn."

I love them walking back in those costumes in broad daylight. The absurdity of it all. 

I forgot about the pure devastation of Steiner. In the dawn especially. This fear of this world. Pulls no punches. And that he kills his kids. Jesus.

The shot of Marcello walking out to the balcony seems sure that he will kill himself. Why'd doesn't he?

And this is all without mentioning Paparazzo and the photographers. Fellini fucking nailed it.

God this scene telling Steiner's wife. Absolutely brutal and chilling. Photographers like little gnats. 

"It's idiotic. That's why I'm doing it."

Everyone gets naked and feels dirtier the next day. So it's a hedonic treadmill of adaptation. 

The party must not end. Drumming. Marcello is such a dick! Just a bad person. 

The drumming in this scene is so fucking good.

Making a chicken out of her. Such clarity of action there. And the feathers do look cool, flying around. They are theatrical. 

The white suit and the light.

Those trees make perfect lines. The image of everyone going through them is perfect.

And the beach to end it. Ah.

Pulling a monster out of the ocean. Such a sensational moment. So unexpected yet inevitable and bracing and bold. "What's it staring at?"

The angel again. Across the water. And the ocean drowning it all out like the opening. This time nature instead of helicopter. So there has been growth.

Wow. What an absolutely fucking perfect ending. No words. Just a gesture of "who knows". And the ocean blaring. And we walk into the distance. And the angel smiles and looks at the camera - like the magnolia ending!!

—

Fellini might be my favorite filmmaker. The wildness of his stagings is something I want to create in my work as well. I love, though, that we never leave behind reality, humanity. The scene with Marcello and his father is so perfect. I’ve been thinking a lot about that image, in the dark, of the father looking out onto the night and Marcello sitting with him, off to the side. And just those words - “do you want some water?” - “no, it will pass”. I think I will put a scene remarkably similar to that in AMF.`

