Each garry winogrand picture is like a punch in the stomach, a sort of Raymond Carver story in one picture.
Each has two side to it: is it a hopeful image, or is it one of a total dark underbelly? The image of the sailor under the street lamps I love. I love it for Luke because it is both hopeful and despairing. Is he walking towards something or away? Where is he going? Is he returning somewhere? Does he have a family? Does he experience love? Is he a ghost? Is he to die in the war? What possessions does he carry in that bag?

The woman with the ice cream cone is one of my favorites. Is she laughing or crying? Is that joy or despair? How does she like the ice cream? The suit behind her is so menacing to me, but also representative of this kind of existential emptiness. And it’s dirty: I like that we see the reflection, we can sort of make out Winogrand taking the picture. And the composition is messy: we see on the left people eating. This is a real gut-punch of a snapshot and I love it. It captures a feeling that I think is spot-on for All My Friends: one of joy and sadness, or is that sadness and joy? And is that suit in the background just a suit or a sign of doom? And are you laughing or crying, or is it both? And your ice cream—is it any good?

I love the mood of the weird picture with the man and the whale-type thing in the aquarium. There is something so ethereal, so futuristic, so confusing but also so clear about it. I’m listening to Radiohead’s “Decks Dark” as I write this and it’s a perfect kind of soundtrack for this image. I like that this is some sort of official-person, based on his hat. I like that I don’t know what that tool he holds is. Maybe it’s some sort of cleaning utensil. Is it a janitor? And so: is it night time? Does he have this special relationship with this creature? Lonely in the night, does he go into this aquarium and clean this pane of glass and whisper to the whale-type thing prayers for his family? Does he have a family? Does the whale? The whale seems to have a partner or friend behind him. He also seems to have a smile on his face. The colors are so nice here too.

The great picture of the man picking up the girl and bringing her into the body of water is the most romantic at first glance, but once again I love that there is this odd sadness to it. I’m not sure what mysteries this body of water contains. It appears to be the ocean. There is a boy and a family in the distance and it looks like some boats in the distance, but they are sort of fuzzy so it’s hard to tell. I love that we cannot see the faces of our hero and heroine. This makes this story so much more ambiguous for me. Is it one of pure joy? Or is there something else going on here? Is this first love or a late relationship on the fritz? Or perhaps an affair? Does she like the water at all? Is he hurting her? I love the clarity of composition here. It’s so simple, so bleak. This reminds me a lot of a Raymond Carver short story. It also, strangely, reminds me of death.
